Welcome back everyone in this lecture we're going to build a very simple rest API and use placement
to actually request data.
So we're going to learn how to send back basic information using arrest.
Keep in mind the most common payload format to send information back from a request is these Jasen which
if you haven't seen it before it's very similar to key value formatting and pretty much looks exactly
like a python dictionary.
So keep that in mind.
Let's go ahead and begin.
I'll see you at the.
And text editor.
OK here I am with the text editor.
I'm going to create a new file and I'm going to call it simple API pie.
You can call it apple pie really whatever you want just any simple basic python file.
So I've created this file and then save from flask import flask.
So we're going create a basic class application.
So say app is equal to flask and then we'll pass in the name variable and then we'll say if name is
equal to me.
Go ahead and take the app run it and we'll say debug mode is equal to true.
All right.
This is pretty much the most basic floss application we create.
We're not even connected to any templates where we're going to do is show you how you can create a resource
using flask restful but in order to do that when you actually install flask restful.
So go ahead and activate your environment whatever you happen to have called it.
So I'll say activate my flask in the.
So here my environment is activated and I'm going to zoom out just a little bit so we can get the whole
detail here and say Pipp install a capital F flask restful.
So go ahead and let the install so that is the are is also capitalized.
I already had it installed so I'm good to go.
Once you've installed that you can come back to the python script and then say from Lotus the import
is going to be flask underscore restful lowercase.
We're going to import two things.
We're going to import resource at API and basically the way this works is resource is actually going
to allow you to create a resource to connect to using the rest API.
An API is just going to simply be a wrapper around your entire application that allows the resource
to actually connect.
So a lot is going on to the backend here for you and the API calls it's going to seem really similar
to when we use things like flask migrate or we need this API is equal to and then call API and then
pasand our application.
So that's all we need to do and then create a resource the most basic way is to just create a class
and I'm going to say hello world.
And then we inherit from resource and then these resource classes they basically take in different methods
like get Post put delete.
So the most basic method we are going to provide is the gets and takes and the self keyword.
And then this method is just going to return
a python dictionary that when we actually read it in the post meant side it's going to be Jason.
So say hello world.
And then save that.
So the key thing to note here is that we're wrapping our currently existing application with this API
call that we imported from flask restful and then we created a class which inherited from resource which
we also imported and then we just have the most basic method which is get self.
And then we return something.
The last thing we need to do before running or application is connect this resource to an actual u r
l.
So the way you do that is remember we assign here on line 6 this API to connect the application.
But I'm going to do is notice is outside of the class I will say API and then say add underscore resource
and then I'm going to add the name of the class here.
So say hello world.
Go ahead and copy that and then pass in the class comma and Lotusphere and passing in the class.
It by itself in the actually creating an instance of it.
So it is passing that class.
Hello world.
And then here I'm going to pass in the Ural extension that I want to connect this particular resource
with.
So I'm just going to say forward slash so that you can actually make a request directly to the home
page.
Later on we're going to see things like explaining this is something like request or create slash puppy
and so on.
Right now just a single forward slash that's connected to the very home site.
Go ahead and save that.
And we're just adding a resource passing in that class passing and single forward slash.
And now that API has that resource and there we're going to run this file.
So I'll say Python simply API enter.
Now it's running.
Let's go ahead and open up postman to see how that works and how we can create a collection in Postman.
All right so I just opened up.
Postman what I'm going to do is say create new collection and then go ahead and give this collection
a name.
Basically a collection is going to be a folder holding a bunch of requests.
So we're going to say this is our basic collection really whatever you want to call it.
And if you want you can give it a description since it is just documenting what you're doing here.
So I'll just say training that will hit create and I you see this is essentially a folder that you can
share if other people you can run the entire collection of get hoes put delete requests.
So right now we're going to have one single request collection.
So go ahead and close that little window and then right here we see these three dots we're just going
to say add a request so you can give this request a specific name.
So I'll say my first request if you want you can out with ascriptions not necessary and we'll save the
basic collection.
That means if you expand this collection you can see my first request.
So this allows you to really start developing kind of a more test driven approach using postman because
you can have this collection of requests and then just run all of them at the same time a click still
play button.
That way if you begin to edit your website you can just run a collection almost as like a testing.
So we're going to get my first two quest and right here on this button is where we can select which
you want to get PPOs put delete.
So I just want to get your all then is just HTP Colan forward slash 4 slash 1 to seven point zero point
zero point one colon 5000 forward slash.
So right now we're just dealing with the home page.
And then what I didn't do is just send that get request.
So when I send it what it does is it connects to the hello world resource.
And then inside the class it the get method and so it calls the get method from the resource.
So we added to the API and then just returns whatever it was called to return.
In this case it just returns hello world which you see right here.
All right.
That's it.
So successfully we've been able to return some basic piece of information using rest API and also using
the postman graphical interface tool.
Coming up next we're going to begin to expand this example with basic credit commands creating reading
and deleting.
All right.
We'll see at the next lecture.